AddedSubsectionAdjuvantsForVaccines.treatments.md (#481)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/20.treatments.md

**Summary.**
Summarize the state of the neutralizing antibody approach.
-->

##### Adjuvants for Vaccines

> Adjuvants are sometimes included within vaccines, especially vaccines other than live attenuated and inactivated viruses, in order to enhance the immune response.

Author: I received another comment to say earlier what adjuvants are -- specifically, I can just take one of the later sentences and bring it to the beginning (while trying not to do it in a way which may cause a programming thing you guys mentioned earlier about moving stuff -- i'll just add and delete rather than cut/paste or move or something).

A review on the development of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines [@doi:10.3390/vaccines8020153] also included a brief summary of considerations for adjuvants to research for the vaccines including a brief description of some already commonly used adjuvants.
Different adjuvants can regulate different types of immune responses, so the type of adjuvant or combination of adjuvants for use in a vaccine depends on the type of vaccine and the research into what works with respect to efficacy and safety.
Adjuvants include a variety of molecules or larger microbial-related products which sometimes are or include immunostimulants or immunomodulators or more generally have an effect on the immune system or immune responses of interest.

> A variety of possible mechanisms for adjuvants have been researched [@doi:10.1038/nri2510; @doi:10.3389/fimmu.2018.02619; @doi:10.3390/vaccines8010128], including induction of DAMPs (damage-associated molecular patterns) which can be recognized by certain pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) of the innate immune system, being or including or functioning as PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns) which can also be recognized by certain pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), and more generally enhancing humoral (type 2) or cellular (type 1) immune responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A variety of possible mechanisms for adjuvants have been researched [@doi:10.1038/nri2510; @doi:10.3389/fimmu.2018.02619; @doi:10.3390/vaccines8010128].
One possibility is the induction of DAMPs (damage-associated molecular patterns) that can be recognized by certain pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) of the innate immune system.
Another is that they can either be, include, or function as PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns) that can also be recognized by certain PRRs.
In general terms, adjuvants enhance the humoral (type 2) or cellular (type 1) immune responses.
```

Author: I'll take the suggestion to separate it more obvious but keeping it together by using ":" & ";"

> When choosing an adjuvant or combination of adjuvants, considerations include promotion of advantageous effects of the components and immune response and avoiding or inhibiting possible deleterious effects of the components and immune response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When choosing an adjuvant or a combination of adjuvants, considerations should include the promotion of the advantageous effects of the components and of the immune response, and the avoidance or inhibition of the possible deleterious effects of the components and immune response.
```

Author: i'll make sure the parallel terms are the same grammar type as you suggested: so promotion / avoidance / inhibition

> There are also considerations, technologies, and research into the effects of different ways to deliver (or co-deliver or combine) the adjuvant and antigen components of a vaccine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also considerations, technologies, and research into the effects of different ways of delivering (or co-delivering or combining) the adjuvant and antigen components of a vaccine.
```

We briefly describe here a few other types of immune-system related biologics which are useful to note because they form part of several clinical trials for COVID-19 and because they are auxiliary to or conceptually related to the biologics already described in detail above.

Adjuvants are sometimes included within vaccines, especially vaccines other than live attenuated and inactivated viruses, in order to enhance the immune response.
A review on the development of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines [@doi:10.3390/vaccines8020153] also included a brief summary of considerations for adjuvants to research for the vaccines including a brief description of some already commonly used adjuvants.
Different adjuvants can regulate different types of immune responses, so the type of adjuvant or combination of adjuvants for use in a vaccine depends on the type of vaccine and the research into what works with respect to efficacy and safety.
Adjuvants include a variety of molecules or larger microbial-related products which sometimes are or include immunostimulants or immunomodulators or more generally have an effect on the immune system or immune responses of interest.

> A variety of possible mechanisms for adjuvants have been researched [@doi:10.1038/nri2510; doi:10.3389/fimmu.2018.02619; @doi:10.3390/vaccines8010128], including induction of DAMPs (damage-associated molecular patterns) which can be recognized by certain pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) of the innate immune system, being or including or functioning as PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns) which can also be recognized by certain pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), and more generally enhancing humoral (type 2) or cellular (type 1) immune responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A variety of possible mechanisms for adjuvants have been researched [@doi:10.1038/nri2510; @doi:10.3389/fimmu.2018.02619; @doi:10.3390/vaccines8010128], including induction of DAMPs (damage-associated molecular patterns) which can be recognized by certain pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) of the innate immune system, being or including or functioning as PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns) which can also be recognized by certain pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), and more generally enhancing humoral (type 2) or cellular (type 1) immune responses.
```

**Summary.**
Summarize the state of the neutralizing antibody approach.
-->

##### Adjuvants for Vaccines

Adjuvants include a variety of molecules or larger microbial-related products which sometimes are or include immunostimulants or immunomodulators or more generally have an effect on the immune system or immune responses of interest.
Adjuvants are sometimes included within vaccines, especially vaccines other than live attenuated and inactivated viruses, in order to enhance the immune response.

> A review on the development of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines [@doi:10.3390/vaccines8020153] also included a brief summary of considerations for adjuvants to research for the vaccines including a brief description of some already commonly used adjuvants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A review on the development of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines [@doi:10.3390/vaccines8020153] also included a brief summary of considerations for the inclusion of adjuvants.
```
@yemarshall the original sentence is a bit complex, what about just making the end lead in to the next sentence?

Author: the shorter version above loses & changes meaning. Options:
(1) keep as is (preferred b/c verified already)
or
(2) Make the structure sort of simpler by splitting into 2 clauses with semi-colon:
A review on the development of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines [@doi:10.3390/vaccines8020153] also included a brief summary of considerations for adjuvants to research for the vaccines; the summary also included a brief description of some already commonly used adjuvants.
